---------

Setting aside for a moment the near comical irony of the United States crying foul about nations cyberspying on other nations, the Justice Department charges filed against members of the Chinese military for conducting economic cyberspying against American companies seriously escalates a long-bubbling dispute.

The Justice Department announced Monday that a western Pennsylvania federal grand jury had returned indictments against five members of a Chinese military unit headquartered in Shanghai. The indictment claims that the suspects conspired to hack into the computers of six U.S. companies to steal trade secrets in an effort to offer competitive aid to Chinese companies.

The companies hacked were Westinghouse Electric, Alcoa, Allegheny Technologies Inc., United States Steel, the United Steel Workers Union and Solar World, officials said. Alcoa is the nation”s largest aluminum company and U.S. Steel is the nation”s largest steel company.

All of the operations hacked have headquarters in western Pennsylvania, except for Solar World, which is based in Camarillo.

It is certainly no secret that China has been most aggressive in waging cyberspying against the United States. It has been the source of substantial friction when President Barack Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping have talked.

While the United States and China agreed last year to begin holding regular, high-level talks on cybersecurity, administration officials say the Chinese are not receptive to discussions on economic espionage.

As one might expect, the U.S. draws a clear distinction between foreign intelligence gathering and spying to steal intellectual property, but the Chinese claim it is a distinction without a difference.

That all of those indicted by the grand jury were part of a military unit would argue that China sees little difference in military and economic objectives.

The Justice Department created a special branch in 2012 — called the National Security Division — to train hundreds of prosecutors to combat and prosecute cyberspying that poses a threat to national security.

Officials with the program argue that job losses in the United States can be directly traced to economic cyberspying, which poses a threat to national security. Some estimates have placed the cost of cyberspying as high as $120 billion annually.

Obviously, the revelations beginning last June from former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden have considerably weakened the United States” moral high ground on such issues. In fact, it allows the Chinese to claim the U.S. is more aggressive in this arena. One of the most damaging revelations was that the NSA infiltrated Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei Technologies to see whether it was spying for Beijing.

But, make no mistake, these federal indictments are going to create serious diplomatic waves between two countries that are already having a tough time seeing eye-to-eye.

------------------





PITTSBURGH (KDKA) — Investigators released new details today in a cyber-espionage operation that allegedly targeted several United States companies, nearly all of them based in the Pittsburgh area.

Five members of the Chinese military are charged with the crimes.

The FBI held a press conference Tuesday morning with more details on the case.

Federal law enforcement officials call the cyber thefts 21st century burglary.

U.S. Attorney David Hickton and FBI agents revealed more information on the five Chinese military officials accused of hacking into the computers of the local corporations to gain trade secrets.

“We talk about pipe support documents from Westinghouse; we talk about emails from the Steelworkers, as well as from Westinghouse. Once that information is located, it’s packaged up and exfiltrated back to China,” said Assistant U.S. Attorney James Kitchen.

U.S. Steel, Westinghouse and ALCOA are among the affected corporations.

The hackers allegedly stole information on products, along with network credentials, giving them access to sensitive files, according to the investigators.

For employees of those corporations, it could have been as simple as opening an unknown email.

“The most common vector… is through the spear-fishing mail, said Special FBI Agent in Charge Scott Smith. “To get somebody to click on a link that will take you to a site that’s compromise, that will download malware, or to open an attachment that has malware attached.”

Once they got a foothold in a company’s network they allegedly stole thousands of sensitive emails from Westinghouse, along with United Steel Worker Union strategies related to pending trade disputes.

But the cyber thefts go deeper.

“What happens is, when these companies have their proprietary designs stolen, or they’re put in the position where they put out a new product that is then met with a flood of below cost, competitive products that may or may not have been stolen and they can’t compete, what happens is average, ordinary citizens – our friends and neighbors – lose their jobs,” added Hickton. “This case is as much about that as the victimization of these companies.”

Investigators say they are working with the targeted companies and other local corporations on ways to protect themselves from cyber threats.

If brought back to the U.S., the five Chinese military officials would face trial in Pittsburgh. Experts believe that may never happen, but Hickton believes the indictments are more than justified.

“This response by law enforcement will exist as long as the threat exists, and if the threat subsides and the behavior stops, then there will be no need for further cases,” he said.

RELATED LINKS:

Prosecutors: Chinese Targeted Pennsylvania Firms (5/19/14)

More Reports by Bob Allen

Join The Conversation On The KDKA Facebook Page

Stay Up To Date, Follow KDKA On Twitter


-------

208 Datong Road is a nondescript concrete high rise on one of Shanghai's busiest roads. Amid the lingering smog rising like mist off the honking lines of traffic, and the trains screeching to a halt in the nearby main railway station, this building doesn't look like much. But this is exactly where five members of an elite People's Liberation Army group codenamed Unit 61398 were assigned to hack into some of the largest companies in the United States of America.

According to an indictment unveiled on Monday, "the co-conspirators used e-mail messages known as 'spearfishing' messages to trick unwitting recipients into giving the co-conspirators access to their computers."

The group is being indicted for "conspiracy to commit computer fraud and abuse".

"Spearfishing messages were typically designed to resemble e-mails from trustworthy senders, like colleagues, and encourage the recipients to open attached files or click on hyperlinks in the messages," it went on.

The group, whose members went by aliases such as "Jack Wang", "UglyGorilla", "jack Sun" and "KandyGoo", was also hired by Chinese firms to steal specific secrets from identified companies. The group would compromised emails to employees of a company, using details about their lives gleaned through social media or reconnaissance to make the emails convincing enough to click.

Once the compromised file is opened, the hackers can gain full access to the user's computer, and from there work on gaining further access to the corporate network.

For instance, back in 2008, the hackers of Unit 61398 sent e-mails to 19 senior employees at aluminium-manufacturer Alcoa, based in Pennsylvania. The account of the sender impersonated a member of the company's board of directors, and the message included malware in an attachment "disguised as an agenda for Alcoa's annual board meeting."

This sophisticated attack led to the theft of more than 2,900 e-mail messages and 863 attachments, "including internal messages among Alcoa senior managers" that discussed a Chinese acquisition, according to the indictment. It's not certain whether this intelligence was used to any advantage by any Chinese firms, but it's sensitive information nonetheless.

But the attacks were sometimes even more finely targeted. A 2010 strike saw just a single employee of United States Steel targeted by a spear-phishing e-mail. The effect was staggering, providing "hostnames and descriptions for more than 1,700 servers, including servers that controlled physical access to the company's facilities and mobile device access to the company's networks."

A 2012 attack allowed the hacking unit to access "network credentials for virtually every employee" at Allegheny Technologies, which employs over 9,500 full-time workers in the aerospace, defence and "specialty materials solutions" sectors.

Perhaps most worryingly, the group accessed secret files belonging to Westinghouse Electric, which contained details on nuclear power plants. Unit 61398 even hijacked emails from its CEO back in 2010.

According to the indictment, the Chinese military stole a total of at least 1.4 GB of data, "the equivalent of roughly 700,000 pages of e-mail messages and attachments, from Westinghouse's computers" alone, between 2010 and 2012.

The shocking series of attacks shows just how dangerous the spear-phishing technique can be, and just how important it is to properly train staff in defending against social engineering attacks.

When we spoke to Bullguard's Alex Balan back in November, he said that companies need "military-style drills" against social engineering attacks. Looks like he might have been right.

Read more: How to avoid getting stung by a spear phishing scam