CRANBERRY TWP — The federal government charged Chinese military officials Monday with hacking into private U.S. enterprises, including the Westinghouse Electric Co. with its headquarters in the township.

The 56-page indictment released Monday morning by the U.S. District Court in Pittsburgh detailed the alleged security breaches and theft of intellectual property. The case represents the first time the United States has brought charges against another country for cyber hacking and espionage charges.

The indictment detailed how Chinese hackers “repeatedly targeted” high-level officials at the company, including its chief executive officer.

Sheila Holt, spokeswoman for Westinghouse, said Monday she couldn’t comment extensively on the indictment.

“Westinghouse just learned of the indictment today and has not had the opportunity to review it,” she said. “Therefore we cannot comment.”

Westinghouse in 2007 signed a contract with the Chinese government to build four nuclear power plants, and most of the data allegedly stolen by the Chinese detailed the construction and design plans for those power plants.

Those designs are the basis for almost half of the world’s operating nuclear power plants, the indictment said.

The hackers also allegedly stole more than 700,000 pages of e-mails from “senior decision-makers” at the company to gain insider knowledge on the goings-on of the company.

Alcoa, another international company with a subsidiary office in Cranberry, also is listed in the indictment released by federal attorneys.

In that case, hackers stole nearly 3,000 e-mails from company employees, while Chinese operatives also impersonated a member of the company’s board of directors in e-mails sent to other high-level officials.

At least 19 Alcoa employees were targeted in the e-mail “spearphishing” campaign, officials said.

“To our knowledge, no material information was compromised during this incident which occurred several years ago,” said Alcoa spokeswoman Monica Orbe. “Safeguarding our data is a top priority for Alcoa, and we continue to invest resources to protect our systems.

Federal officials said in the indictment that the Chinese officials deliberately targeted the affected companies, most of which were in direct negotiations and business relations with the Chinese.

“In some cases, the conspirators stole trade secrets that would have been particularly beneficial to Chinese companies at the time they were stolen,” the indictment said.

The other affected companies are U.S. Steel, Allegheny Technologies Inc. and SolarWorld, along with United Steel Workers Union.

U.S. Sen. Bob Casey, D-PA, in a statement Monday admonished the Chinese government for its apparent role in the hacking scandal.

“I am outraged by today’s announcement that members of China’s People’s Liberation Army hacked into companies in Pennsylvania and stole significant trade secrets to advantage Chinese state-owned companies. I urge the administration to take aggressive action.

“For too long, China’s unfair trade practices and economic policies have cost jobs in Pennsylvania and across the U.S. The U.S. trade deficit with China set a new record for the fourth straight year in 2013, reaching $318.4 billion.

“This move is further evidence of China’s anticompetitive trade practices, which have taken a dramatic toll on Pennsylvania businesses and pose a threat to our national security. “

U.S Sen. Pat Toomey, R-PA, in a statement railing against the alleged charges.

“Cyberattacks from China are completely intolerable and cause serious harm to our national security and our economy.

“If true, these are outrageous acts of economic espionage that threaten companies and jobs here in Pennsylvania,” he said.


------


Hundreds of other U.S. companies have been hacked by the Chinese military officials accused in a federal indictment of breaching Pittsburgh-area companies, the FBI's top cyber investigator told the Tribune-Review.

But the attacks were much broader than those described in the indictment and have gone on for years, said J. Keith Mularski, the FBI's supervisory special agent in charge of cyber crime, who led the investigation from Pittsburgh.

A grand jury indictment unsealed on Monday charges five Chinese military officials with hacking into U.S. Steel, Alcoa, Westinghouse and Allegheny Technologies Inc., as well as the United Steelworkers of America headquarters Downtown. The U.S. headquarters of a German solar panel maker in Oregon is identified as a target.

“When you're seeing them use the resources of the whole country to put one of our companies out of business or to get a competitive advantage, it makes you angry,” said Mularski, a Pittsburgh native whose dad was a steelworker.

“The biggest message we want to send on this is that hacking commercial companies to get a competitive advantage is wrong. We can't tolerate it.”

He would not identify companies that were breached but said the FBI notifies them when it happens.

Foreign countries are engaging in “economic warfare,” said Paul Kaminski, chair of the Pentagon's Defense Science Board and a senior adviser to the director of National Intelligence. It's about time the United States sent a clear message that it is aware of the attacks and plans to fight back, he said.

“Every country, including the United States, does espionage, but one thing that's very different about our policy is that we do not use espionage to advance the interests of our private companies,” said Kaminski, who heads Virginia-based consulting company Technovation. “We don't steal trade secrets and give that to our companies.”

The Chinese hackers relied on human error by sending “spearphishing” messages that looked like legitimate company email, the indictment says. They tricked executives into downloading malware, or bad software that allowed the hackers to access computer systems.

“The gold mine is getting somebody to click,” said David Thaw, a computer security expert at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law.

It makes sense that Chinese hackers would target many U.S. companies, he said. Pittsburgh is becoming a hub for cyber security work, but hackers rarely limit themselves to a small geographic area when they can go anywhere online.

Companies named in the indictment have computer security that could enable officials to trace the attacks and confirm what happened, said Martin Lindner, a principal engineer at Carnegie Mellon University Software Engineering Institute's CERT division.

“There's what you know and what you don't know,” Lindner said about the number of companies breached. “I believe the number will be large, but we don't know what we don't know.”

The problem for private companies is having to defend themselves against a foreign government, Mularski said.

“These companies do a good job to secure their networks, but you're up against a group that has infinite resources,” he said. “You're up against China.”

Karen Paullet, an information security professor at Robert Morris University, agreed.

“I personally don't think the Chinese will ever stop,” said Paullet, who led 20 students attending a national security seminar in Washington on Monday that included meeting with Chinese embassy officials.

“As they're getting smarter, can we afford to stay up with ways to stay secure?” she said. “Big companies probably can, at a cost to end users. But that makes you wonder about your middle-of-the-road companies. How do they sustain this?”

andrewconte@tribweb.com

----

The Shanghai address of 208 Datong Road is where five members of Unit 61398 of the People's Liberation Army were "assigned" to deploy a widespread spear-phishing (or "spearfishing") campaign to allegedly hack into leading US companies, according to a new indictment from Monday.

The President Barack Obama administration said Monday that the signals intelligence unit of the Chinese military scored private secrets from Alcoa, Westinghouse, United States Steel, Allegheny Technologies, and a steelworker union among others. If there was any top-secret, Chinese military hacking exploits used, the indictment [PDF] doesn't say. Instead, it appears that old-school trickery was employed to gain all kinds of secrets, including the designs to a nuclear power plant and access to executives' e-mail.

Further Reading Indicted: China’s army hacked into US companies, stole trade secrets [Updated]

"The co-conspirators used e-mail messages known as 'spearfishing' messages to trick unwitting recipients into giving the co-conspirators access to their computers," according to the indictment, unsealed Monday in Pennsylvania. "Spearfishing messages were typically designed to resemble e-mails from trustworthy senders, like colleagues, and [they] encourage the recipients to open attached files or click on hyperlinks in the messages."

The links contained malware and provided a backdoor to "bypass normal authentication procedures in the future," according to the indictment.

In 2008, according to the indictment, the hackers sent e-mails to 19 senior employees at aluminum-maker Alcoa in Pennsylvania. The account of the sender impersonated a member of the company's board of directors. The message included malware in an attachment "disguised as an agenda for Alcoa's annual board meeting." The attack led to the theft of more than 2,900 e-mail messages and 863 attachments, "including internal messages among Alcoa senior managers" discussing a Chinese acquisition, according to the indictment.

In 2010, a sole employee of United States Steel was targeted with a spear-phishing e-mail. The attack provided "hostnames and descriptions for more than 1,700 servers, including servers that controlled physical access to the company's facilities and mobile device access to the company's networks." And in 2012, a spear-phishing attack allowed the hackers to access "network credentials for virtually every employee" at Allegheny Technologies, which has some 9,500 full-time workers in the aerospace, defense and "specialty materials solutions" sectors.

The indictment also said that the Chinese military gained access to Westinghouse secrets to build nuclear power plants and hijacked e-mails from its chief executive officer in 2010. Between 2010 and 2012, the Chinese military was accused of stealing a total of at least 1.4 gigabytes of data, "the equivalent of roughly 700,000 pages of e-mail messages and attachments, from Westinghouse's computers."

In 2012, when the trade group United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, and Allied Industrial and Services Workers International Union was publicly decrying alleged China auto-parts dumping practices, the hackers gained access to the union president's e-mail, according to the indictment. Some of the stolen messages included preparations for an upcoming news conference where the union publicized a "call to action" against China trading practices.